                                                                     1. andhra pradesh
                                                          ----------------------------------------

Kalamkari Paintings : 
Kalamkari literally means, Kalam - pen & kari - work, i.e., art work done using a pen.  Vegetable dyes are used to color the designs applied on cloth.  The art of painting using organic dyes on cloth was popular in several parts of India, but this style of Kalamkari flourished at Kalahasti (80 miles north of Chennai) and at Masulipatnam (200 miles east of Hyderabad).  The Kalamkari tradition chiefly consists of scenes from Hindu mythology.  Figures of deities with rich border embellishments were created for the temples.  In Masulipatnam, the weavers were involved in the block printing art, while at Kalahasti, the Balojas (a caste involved in making bangles) took to this art. 

Nirmal Painting :
This is a type of ancient painting in which herbs and minerals are used as dye. The most common colour used in this painting is the golden colour which is made from mixture of gums and herbs.You can find a lot of epic stories explained by these paintings. You can find a lot of elegant craftsmen of this style of painting in Hyderabad.
This painting was first introduced to Mughals by traders who got attracted by its beauty and promoted this painting by brining many craftsmen to the city.

Bidriware :
its a metal handicraft from the city of Bidar in Karnataka. It was developed in the 14th century C.E. during the rule of the Bahmani Sultans.[1] The term "bidriware" originates from the township of Bidar, which is still the chief center of production.[2] The metal used is white brass that is blackened and inlaid with silver.[2] This native art form has obtained Geographical Indications (GI) registry on 03/01/2006.[3]

Bead embroidery : 
its a type of beadwork that uses a needle and thread to stitch beads to a surface of fabric, suede, or leather.Bead embroidery is an embellishment that does not form an essential part of a textile's structure. In this respect, bead embroidery differs from bead weaving, bead crochet, and bead knitting. Woven, knitted, and crocheted beads may be attached during fabric production, whereas embroidered beads are always added upon finished fabric.

Etikoppaka toys :
In the early development stages of the Etikoppaka toys, they were only used by children as toys for the purpose of playing. The natural dyes and wood used in these toys made them safe play with and durable. However, gradually the Etikoppaka toys adapted to a broad usage. Today, they can be used as toys, decoration items, utility items and even gifting items.

Kondapalli Toys :
are toys made of wood in Kondapalli of Krishna district, a nearby Vijayawada in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh.[1] Bommala Colony translates to Toys Colony in Kondapalli is the place where the art of crafting takes place.[2] It was registered as one of the geographical indication handicraft from Andhra Pradesh as per Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999.[3][4] This GI application was filed by LIGHT (LANCO Institute of General Humanitarian Trust) and Kondapalli Wooden Toys Manufacturers[5].These toys were one of the varieties of toys assembled in the houses during the festivals of Sankranti and Navratri and is referred as Bommala Koluvu.

Silver Filigree Work :
Filigree is a special form of jewel work which comprise of curling, twisting and plaiting malleable metal threads and uniting them with the contact points or the ground, and silver filigree is a special art by itself. Silver Filigree Work, which is crafted in puru metal in Andhra Pradesh is an important craft in the state, well known for the intricate designs and modern patterns made out from thin silver wires. Karimnagar in Andhra Pradesh has been the traditional center of the Silver Filigree Work.

Warangal Carpets :
There is a host of various arts and crafts which the people of Andhra Pradesh have patronized, in keeping with the affluent tradition of the state. One of these for which the state of Andhra Pradesh is famous for, is the craft of carpet making or carpet weaving. It was the Arab community that settled down in this region that led to the weaving of Indo-Persian carpets. The Warangal Carpets in Andhra Pradesh is one distinctive style of carpet weaving which is still as popular as it was when it started way back during the Mughul era.








                                                                     2. Arunachal Pradesh
                                                             ----------------------------------------

Cane and Bamboo Craft :
Arunachal Pradesh is home to various tribal communities. Nature and natural products are at the centre of these tribal communities’ primitive way of life. Cane and Bamboo are prime raw materials that the locals and various tribes of Arunachal Pradesh use to make daily use products. The beauty and quality of the cane and bamboo art of the state are trendy and make these products a favorite amongst the locals and visitors of the state.  

Wood Carving :
Arunachal Pradesh is a state that is abundant with natural beauty and natural products. Wood, like cane and Bamboo, is also readily available in the state. Arunachal Pradesh successfully maintains and promotes the art form of wood carving.

Carpet Weaving :
Carpet weaving is the specialty of the Monpas, a Buddhist community of Arunachal Pradesh. The girls of this community receive training in weaving from an early age. This is also a tradition that is continuing from one generation to another

Thangka Painting :
Thangka is a painting on cloth that is particular to the Buddhist religion. These paintings have religious motifs and depict deities and themes of the pious act

Ornaments of Art :
The artistic abundance of Arunachal Pradesh is prominent in its unique designs of pieces of jewelry. Nature plays a significant role as an inspiration for artwork in the state. Nature is a primary part of the tribals’ life, and it can be seen in their fashion also. 

Weaving Art :
Weaving is traditionally a women-centered artwork. Like the carpet weaving art form, weaving, in general is a prevalent occupation amongst the locals of Arunachal Pradesh.












                                                                     3. Assam 
                                                      ----------------------------------------

CANE AND BAMBOO :
Cane and bamboo have remained inseparable parts of life in Assam. Grown in abundance here and hence most of the household articles in the homes of Assamese are made of cane and bamboo. They happen to be the two most commonly-used items in daily life, ranging from household implements to construction of dwelling houses to furniture to weaving accessories to musical instruments

METAL CRAFTS :
Cane and bamboo have remained inseparable parts of life in Assam. Grown in abundance here and hence most of the household articles in the homes of Assamese are made of cane and bamboo. They happen to be the two most commonly-used items in daily life, ranging from household implements to construction of dwelling houses to furniture to weaving accessories to musical instruments.

METAL CRAFTS :
Bell-metal and brass have been the most commonly used metals for the Assamese artisan. Traditional utensils and fancy artiicles designed by these artisans are found in every Assamese household. The Xorai and bota have in use for centuries, to offer betel-nut and paan while welcoming distinguished guests.

WOOD CRAFT :
Assam has always remained one of the most forest-covered states of the country, and the variety of wood and timber available here have formed a part of the people's culture and ecomony.

MASKS :
With tribal art and folk elements form the base of Assamese culture, masks have found an important place in the cultural activities of the people. Masks have been widely used in folk theatres and bhaonas with the materials ranging from terracotta to pith to metal, bamboo and wood.

JEWELLERY :
Gold-washing and jewellery-making were two important ancient industries in Assam. The earliest references to the golden art are found in the Arthashastra, but jewellery-making on an elaborate scale happened during the Ahom reign. Goldsmiths and gold traders flourished in Kamrup, Goalpara, Barpeta and Sivasagar but Jorhat town and outlying areas became the nerve centre of the gold and silver craft for superior enamelling work known as minakari in Assamese.

TERRACOTTA :
Two categories of people – Kumars and Hiras – made pottery their own. But the ones that carved out a niche are the terra cotta craftsmen of Asarikandi in Dhubri district. The distinctive style has made Asarikandi an ethnic art brand in India. Asarikandi is also known for its sola pith craft, made from the soft core of a special kind of reed. Terracotta as a medium has dominated the handicraft scene of Assam since time immemorial. 

TRADITIONAL PAINTINGS :
The tradition of paintings in Assam can be traced back to several centuries in the past. Ahom palaces and satras and naam-ghar etc still abound in brightly-coloured paintings depicting various stories and events from history and mythology. In fact, the motifs and designs contained in Chitra-Bhagavata have come to become a traditional style for Assamese painters of the later period, and are still in practice today















                                                                     4. Bihar 
                                                      ----------------------------------------

Madhubani Paintings :
Madhubani paintings are among the most famous paintings in the world. This popular art of the Mithila region expresses the creativity and sensitivity of its people. Like any folk art, it also shows the psychology of the society to which it belongs; it reflects the morals, values and customs of the region in a very interesting way. This style of painting has been traditionally done by the women of the region, though today men are also involved to meet the demand.

Manjusha Paintings :
Manjusha Art is a heritage of Ang Pradesh (present times Bhagalpur in Bihar district). This art has been prevalent in Bhagalpur for a long time. Manjusha Art came to the forefront between the time periods of 1931-1948. It is said to be the only art form in the history of India which has a sequential form of story displayed in a series pictorially. Hence, it is also called scroll painting

Tikuli Art :
Tikuli is the word that is used locally to describe bindi, a dot worn between the eyebrows as an accessory, but it is much more than just an accessory. In the past, the bindi was created as a symbolic means of worshipping intellect and conserving the modesty of women. But in contemporary Bihar, it has now become a symbol of empowering women.

Bhojpuri Painting :
The Bhojpuri region of Bihar saw the emergence of the folk painting style known as "Bhojpuri painting" thousands of years ago. The primary subjects of this painting style are Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati, and it is typically used on the walls of temples or newlyweds' bedrooms. In order to make the painting more popular with the general public and to make the style more realistic, contemporary paintings have also included elements of natural things, everyday life, and the sufferings of villagers.

Patna Kalam :
With influences from Persian and Company (British) styles, Patna Kalam is classified as a branch of Mughal painting.The Mughal colors and linings may clearly be seen in the portraits, and the British shading can be seen to have been included. Patna Kalam's primary attention was on the painting's topic, departing from the Mughal and Persian styles of expansive borders with finely detailed ornamentation. Their primary topics included the common man, regional festivals, rituals, bazaar scenes, regional leaders, and home activities. The paintings were created on a variety of materials, including paper, mica, and even ivory diskettes that were fashioned into brooches.











                                                                     5. Chhattisgarh 
                                                      ----------------------------------------

Cotton Fabrics :
are one of the famous and attractive handicrafts made by the tribals of Bastar. These are made of Kosa thread which is made from a kind of worm found in the forest, hand woven and hand printed by tribes who trace their lineage to the 14th century weaver-saint-poet Kabir. The hand printing is generally done with the natural vegetable dye extracted from ail, found in the forest of Bastar. These fabrics include cotton saris – well-known as Bastar Kosa Saree, dress materials and drapes.

BAMBOO ART :
Bamboo thickets are common sight in the State and tribals of Chhattisgarh have been putting their craftsmanship to work. Craftsmanship of Chhattisgarh tribals can be seen from varying articles of craft produce they make out of bamboo. Articles for daily as well as decorative use are produced by these artisans. Some of the well known Bamboo produce include agricultural implements, fishing traps, hunting tools and baskets.
 
BELL METAL (DHOKRA) :
Bastar and Raigarh districts of Chhattisgarh are popular for crafting bell metal handicrafts using brass, and bronze. Tribes like ‘Ghawas’ of Bastar and ‘Jharas’ of Raigarh mainly practice this art form, also known as Dhokra art. This is done with lost wax technique or hollow casting.

WROUGHT IRON (LOHA SHILP) :
The Loha Shilp or the use of wrought iron to create dark raw forms of the metal artifacts and figurines is another craft form of Chhattisgarh. The raw material used for this craft is mostly recycled scrap iron. Things like lamps, candle stands, effigies of musicians, toys, figurines, and deities are the typical products made out of this craft.

ORNAMENTS :
Jewelry from Chhattisgarh is available in a variety of gold, silver, bronze and mixed metal. Ornament made out of beads, cowries and feathers are part of tribal costumes. Tribal men and women wear traditional ornaments.

TERRACOTTA :
Like in many other states, Terracotta has found a place in the handicrafts created by Chhattisgarh. Terracotta pottery represents the rituals and customs of tribal life in the state and symbolizes their emotions.

TUMBA :
Tumba is a less known craft widely produced in the Bastar region, which originated with the widespread use of hollow gourd shells. Tribal use them as containers to store water and salfi, from which this art is inspired.

WOOD CARVING :
The woodcarving art has been flourishing in Chhattisgarh from time immemorial and one can find beautifully carved wooden products designed by the craftsman of the State. The skillful craftsmen of the State carve beautiful wooden Ceilings, doors, lintels etc using different kinds of wood like shisham, teak, dhudi, sal and kikar. The craftsmen also make pipes, masks, doors, window frames and sculptures.









                                                                     6. goa 
                                                      ----------------------------------------

BRASS METAL WARE :
While utensils of utility are made of sheet metal (copper), brass metal casting is a craft passed on from one generation to another practiced on hereditary basis. The items produced include oil lamps in various designs, candle stands, temple towers, church bells, ashtrays, etc

WOODEN LAQUERWARE/WOOD TURNING :
Some of the most exquisite items produced in Goan woodcraft include cradles, baby carts, toys, corner stands, etc. which are used mostly by Hindu families on religious occasions.

CROCHET & EMBROIDERY :
Works such as tablecloths, children and ladies garments, pillow, cushion covers and linen form a breathtaking apparel range.

BAMBOO CRAFT :
One of the major crafts industries of Goa is the bamboo craft. The lists of popular bamboo products include flower baskets, mats, letter-holders, pen stands, fans and other decorative items.

FIBRE CRAFT :
Shopping bags, ladies purses, coasters, wall hangings and other essential accessory items used in daily purposes are made of banana or sisal fibre. The major fibre craft centre is situated in Corlim.

JUTE MACRAME CRAFT :
Jute craft is known to be one of the most unique crafts of India and items such as decorative bags, belts, wall hangings, lamp shades, flower pots, hangers, etc are popular Goan souvenirs.

COCONUT MASK CARVING & SEA SHELL CRAFT :
Mask carving has got a whole new look in Goa as it is done on coconut shells. Sea shell craft produces ashtrays, lamp shades, coasters, chandeliers, curtains, pot hangers, table mats, clocks, mirror frames, etc.





















































